1. Referral count time! How many users did you refer and how many $SW tokens did you earn with our special 500 tokens reward? Don t forget, you earn 500 $SW for every friend you invite, up to 25 referrals! Share your referral count below!

2. The SUNWAVES Token is set to transform the festival experience through blockchain technology. sunwavestoken.com/ Sign up today and receive 500 $SW Tokens as a welcome gift! Part of the ION Ecosystem SWToken CryptoCommunity FestivalExperience

3. Get ready for our latest airdrop of $50,000 worth of $CFI with CyberFinance . 5000 lucky eligible winners will get rewards! Entry: Like & RT Follow & Complete simple tasks using TrustWallet short.trustwallet.com/CyberF

4. We Are Guaranteed Safety! We have successfully passed a Comprehensive Security Audit by did audits for projects like , , , , , etc. This means that you can safely use our wallet and not worry about the safety of your funds We are one of the first Telegram mini apps to pass such a security audit. User security is one of the most important things for us and we will keep maintaining the highest standards.

5. The secret weapon in Web3 marketing that truly works? Network Effects Unlock this strategy, and watch your user base skyrocket! The best way to describe Network Effects is: A product displays positive network effects when more usage of the product by any user increases the product s value for other users (and sometimes all users). The entire Web3 ecosystem thrives on Network Effects: blockchains, successful infrastructure projects, p2e games, and more. They all leverage these effects. To grasp this concept better, think about the telephone: A single telephone is useless, but the utility of the telephone network increases with each new telephone added. As the total number of connections a given node (telephone) can establish increases, the utility of the network is enhanced. Your mission is to replicate this in your project! 16 Types of Network Effects In the map below, NFX has depicted various types and categories (organized by color), with the strongest and simplest network effects at the center. Your goal is to incorporate at least a few Network Effects from this map into your project. The more and stronger they are, the better. Network Effects are Not Virality Network effects are not the same as viral effects. Network effects create defensibility, while viral effects are about acquiring new users for free. They have entirely different objectives and strategies. Formula for Success Durability = Network Effects + Economies of Scale + Brand + Embedding + IP Types of Compensation for Bonding You also need to decide on the type of compensation for key network participants based on their value. Luckily, the types of compensation are limited. The image below offers a good starting list. To achieve exponential growth for your project, you need to understand: 1. Who are the main participants in your network? 2. How will they interact and what value do they add? 3. How will you attract them? Tagging some of the best minds in the space: Share in the comments how you are already using Network Effects in your projects and how it has impacted their growth

6. Rewards Distribution & Weekly Referral Contest The weekly prize pool is $1500 USDT! Also, we began the Rewards Distribution for your past activities into our Wallet You can find more info here: t.me/CyberFinanceNews/102

7. CFI App Weekly Recap - Our backend is now rock-solid thanks to a new blockchain RPC load balancer - Our frontend is lightning fast after a 7x bundle size optimization - Mini App has a fresh new look - We've made several improvements based on your valuable feedback Check out these new features in our App and get your rewards now!

8. Verifying my account on Sauces with the nickname: "obamise" Learn more about ! IceOpenNetwork ION Binance OKX Bybit Kucoin HTX Gateio Upbit Bithumb

9. Attention Seedizens , Your SEED is at risk, and there won t be any second chances! On , we'll burn $SEED from inactive accounts. If you haven t logged in for , your coins will be gone permanently. This is a final notice. Only active Seedizens will keep their SEED. Log in immediately and remind your friends, too. The airdrop is near. Don t lose what s already yours!

10. today 98 days of daily login SEED t.me/seed_coin_bot/app?start screenshot this

11. MEET US NOW on YouTube! SPIRIT premieres Now!!! geni Tell everyone!

12. THIS IS THE SONG HE WANTS TO HEAR: It s not WORSHIP until you surrender! 27mins 13secs of Pure Fire!!! 12 MIDNIGHT, BURN ft will be out everywhere. Video is up for premiere 9am (WAT) tomorrow Friday on YouTube. Go now, Like and wait for it!

13. Burn this chaff away, save this soul from wreck!

14. You have to start learning new things. ApostleFemiLazarus

15. THIS FRIDAY, 6th of March Baruch Hashem Adonai ft will be released everywhere! Tell everyone! Truly prophetic and for such a time as this..

16. Big step! I ve joined the MedxVerse National Campus Ambassador Programme Let s make healthcare more accessible together. MedxVerse FutureOfHealth
