1. Good morning family

2. Cut off mark for heaven dan increase

3. Twitter is crazy TF

4. This year no really favour thieves at all. All the thieves 99 days just finish this year. Even person wey thief World Cup 2022 Them catch ham this 2026

5. If to say you resemble your handwriting You go fine talk true??

6. BREAKING: Real Madrid sign Carlos Esp as new striker, here we go! 25m release clause activated from Levante with formal letter sent to the club tonight. Spanish striker joins immediately with medical in Madrid today.

7. Sad news from Italy as Franco Baresi has passed away this morning at 66 years old. An absolute legend of the game with AC Milan and Italy, marking an era for different generations. Thoughts and prayers with the family and the friends. Rest in peace, Franco.

8. "Na for health care o" Nigerian politicians:

9. Post World Cup effect

10. Season never even start

11. FA statement on Chelsea. "A financial sanction of 10 million and a suspended two-window registration ban have been imposed on Chelsea FC for breaches of The Football Association [The FA] Football Agent Regulations, Regulations on Working with Intermediaries and Third Party Investment in Players Regulations. "The FA charged Chelsea FC with 74 breaches of FA Rule E1.2 after its current ownership self-reported misconduct upon its purchase of the club. The FA is continuing to investigate individual misconduct arising out of this case. "Chelsea FC admitted to the 74 breaches of FA Rule E1.2 prior to a hearing and an independent Regulatory Commission imposed a six-point deduction, which was to be suspended until 30 June 2027, and a 10 million fine. "The club appealed against the suspended points deduction and an independent Appeal Board allowed the appeal and set aside this sanction following a further hearing. In its place, the Appeal Board imposed a registration ban for two complete and consecutive transfer windows which is suspended until 30 June 2027. "The 10 million fine imposed by the Regulatory Commission was not subject to appeal and the full amount will be invested into grassroots football."

12. Chelsea football club

13. Me almost nutting but haven t found the perfect video

14. Bet you didn t see that coming

15. Thief Dan first me chop today
