CHAPTER TWO
LITERATURE REVIEW
2.1 Conceptual Review
2.1.1 The Big Five Personality Model OCEAN
The Big Five Personality Model, commonly called OCEAN, is a widely accepted framework for describing personality. It groups personality into Openness to Experience, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness and Neuroticism. The model is useful in personality research because each trait represents a broad and interpretable pattern of behaviour rather than a short-term mood or a single action (Goldberg, 1993; McCrae & Costa, 2008).
Openness describes curiosity, imagination and willingness to consider unfamiliar ideas. Conscientiousness relates to organization, self-discipline and persistence. Extraversion concerns sociability, energy and engagement with other people. Agreeableness covers cooperation, trust and concern for others. Neuroticism describes a tendency to experience negative emotions such as worry, stress and emotional instability. A score on one trait does not define a person; it indicates a relative position on a continuous scale.
The model has been associated with outcomes in education, work and wellbeing. For example, conscientiousness is often related to academic and workplace performance, while other traits may relate to social interaction, creativity or stress responses (Poropat, 2009; Barrick & Mount, 1991; Roberts et al., 2007). These associations explain why OCEAN is frequently used as the target framework in computational personality studies.

Figure 2.1: Personality Traits
2.1.2 Digital Personality Footprints on Social Media
Digital personality footprints are traces of behaviour left through online activity. They include comments, posts, replies, profile descriptions and interaction patterns. Text is particularly useful because it is a direct record of language use. Word choice, topic preference, emotional expression and conversational style may contain patterns that are associated with personality.
The original project design considered X formerly Twitter as the source of posts, profiles and metadata. Such information can be valuable in a future multi-source system. The current experiment, however, is limited to the PANDORA dataset and uses English-language online comments as its primary input. This distinction is important: the literature may discuss profiles, metadata and network signals, but the reported experiment evaluates comment text rather than every possible social media signal.
Online content is not an exact record of personality. A user may write differently in different communities or on different topics. A comment can be humorous, quoted, reactive or written for a particular audience. For that reason, online text provides evidence for an estimate, not proof of a fixed personal characteristic. This limitation should remain clear whenever personality prediction systems are described.
2.1.3 Social Media Signals for Big Five Personality Prediction
Personality studies often group digital signals into text, profile information, behavioural metadata and network interactions. Text signals include vocabulary, sentiment, sentence structure and topic. Profile signals include self-descriptions and stated interests. Metadata may include posting frequency or account age, while network signals may include replies, mentions and community membership. These sources can provide complementary information when they are collected with consent and interpreted carefully (Azucar et al., 2018; Farnadi et al., 2016; Tadesse et al., 2018).
In the current PANDORA experiment, cleaned comments are the input used by the models. Comments are grouped by author, and each author is represented by a set of texts rather than one isolated sentence. The baseline path embeds the available comment history. The Q-learning path selects a smaller set of comments before embedding. This design makes the text-selection question measurable without claiming that profile or network features have been evaluated.
Table 2.1: Typical Comment-Based Signals for Big Five Personality Prediction

2.1.4 Applications of Personality Prediction
Personality prediction has possible applications in education, health and wellbeing, employment and responsible artificial intelligence. In education, personality-related research may inform studies of learning preferences, engagement and group work. In health and wellbeing, it may contribute to research on communication patterns and coping tendencies. In employment, personality assessment is already used in some development and team contexts. Responsible AI research can use personality prediction as an example of a sensitive inference task that requires clear limits, transparency and human oversight.
These possible applications do not mean that a text-based prediction system should decide outcomes for people. The system developed in this study is a research tool. It does not diagnose mental health conditions, determine employment suitability or replace validated professional assessment. Its value lies in comparing machine learning procedures and documenting their results.

Figure 2.2: Big Five Personality Profile Radar Chart
2.1.5 Personality Profile Visualization
A radar chart displays the five OCEAN scores on radial axes. It is useful for showing the relative pattern of scores within a single profile. The chart should be read as a visual summary, not as a diagnostic instrument. In the project interface, profiles and experimental results are stored so that a researcher can review the condition and evidence behind an output.
Visualisation is most useful when it is combined with the information needed to interpret it. This includes the model condition, the number of comments used, the data split and the relevant performance measures. A chart alone cannot show whether a particular prediction is accurate.
2.1.6 Online Profile Features for Personality Inference
Online profiles may contain a biography, picture, headline, declared interests and account-level information. These elements can be useful for future work because they may represent relatively stable self-presentation. However, they also introduce privacy and consent concerns. The present experiment does not use them as model features, so they are discussed here only as part of the wider literature on digital personality footprints.
A research system should distinguish what is conceptually possible from what was actually evaluated. The project retains the architectural possibility of extending the collection layer, but the performance claims in this report are limited to the PANDORA comment-based experiment.

Figure 2.3: Example of an X Twitter Profile
2.2 Theoretical Framework
The theoretical framework combines five algorithms: Q-learning for comment selection, BERT for contextual embedding extraction, a generative adversarial network for training-data augmentation, Lasso or ElasticNet regression for sparse continuous trait prediction, and a stacked bidirectional LSTM for sequence-based trait prediction. The five algorithms work together within the experiment, while the final comparison shows how model type, comment selection and augmentation affect the results.
2.2.1 Q Learning for Active Text and Signal Selection
Q-learning is a reinforcement-learning method that estimates the value of taking an action in a particular state. In a standard formulation, the agent observes a state, chooses an action, receives a reward and updates its action-value table. The method balances exploration of possible actions with exploitation of actions that have received higher rewards in the past (Sutton & Barto, 2018).
In this project, the actions are select and skip. A state is formed from properties of the current comment and the already selected set. The implementation considers indicators such as text length, lexical diversity, redundancy, remaining comments and the available selection budget. The reward is based on informativeness and novelty, less a small selection cost. A highly repetitive comment is less attractive after similar comments have already been selected.
The Q-learning selector is trained only from training-set comments. It is then reused without further learning for the validation and test paths. This protects the evaluation boundary by preventing the policy from learning from held-out authors. The baseline condition processes the available comments, while the Q-learning condition uses the learned select-or-skip policy. Their difference in selected-comment count and final model metrics provides the evidence for the selector.
The Q-value update is represented as Q(s,a) = Q(s,a) + alpha [r + gamma max Q(s_next,a_next) - Q(s,a)]. Here alpha is the learning rate, gamma describes the value given to future rewards, r is the observed reward, and the bracketed term is the temporal-difference error. The equation is used to update the expected value of selecting or skipping comments in comparable states.
Pseudocode 2.1: Q-learning Comment Selection


Figure 2.4: Q-learning Comment Selection Process
2.2.2 BERT for Contextual Semantic Embedding Extraction
BERT stands for Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers. It is a pre-trained transformer model that represents text by considering both the words before and after each token. This differs from simple word-count approaches because the representation of a word can change according to its context (Devlin et al., 2019).
The project uses bert-base-uncased. Each cleaned comment is tokenized, truncated to the configured maximum length and passed through BERT. The representation associated with the first CLS token is used as a 768-dimensional embedding. This vector is stored or cached so it can be reused during model training and evaluation.
The regression conditions use mean pooling across the selected comments for an author. This produces one author-level embedding for each trait-specific regression model. The LSTM conditions retain the selected embeddings as an ordered sequence. The LSTM can therefore learn from variation across comments rather than only from the average representation. These are two different ways of using the same BERT output.
BERT is not fine-tuned on the personality dataset in the current experiment. It is used as a fixed contextual feature extractor. This choice reduces the cost of repeatedly training a transformer on a modest dataset and allows the later models to be compared on consistent embeddings.
Pseudocode 2.2: BERT Embedding Extraction


Figure 2.5: BERT Contextual Embedding Extraction Architecture
2.2.3 Generative Adversarial Networks GANs for Embedding Augmentation
A generative adversarial network contains a generator and a discriminator. The generator produces synthetic samples from random latent noise. The discriminator receives real and synthetic samples and attempts to distinguish between them. Through repeated training, the generator learns to produce samples that resemble the joint pattern of the real training data (Goodfellow et al., 2014).
The implemented GAN works on BERT embeddings and OCEAN labels rather than generating new sentences. This is suitable because the downstream models need paired supervised examples: an embedding X and an associated five-score target y. The generator has a shared internal layer with one output head for the synthetic embedding and another for the synthetic OCEAN vector. The discriminator judges the concatenated embedding-score pair.
The GAN receives training data only. Validation and test examples are never passed into its fitting process. Before fitting, the experiment identifies training rows that belong to underrepresented Low, Medium or High trait bands. The GAN is fitted on this focused pool where sufficient data exist. Synthetic examples are clipped to plausible observed ranges and are given a lower sample weight during Lasso or LSTM training.
GAN augmentation is not assumed to improve performance. It is evaluated by comparing each GAN condition with its otherwise matched non-GAN condition. The relevant questions are whether MAE decreases, whether held-out classification measures improve, and whether any observed change is consistent across model and selection conditions.
Pseudocode 2.3: GAN Training and Augmentation

2.2.4 Lasso and ElasticNet Regression for Sparse Trait Prediction
Lasso regression is a linear prediction method that applies an L1 penalty to model coefficients. The penalty encourages some coefficients to become zero, reducing the contribution of less useful dimensions. ElasticNet combines L1 and L2 penalties. It can be helpful where embedding dimensions are related to one another, as is common with high-dimensional language representations (Tibshirani, 1996; Friedman et al., 2010).
The regression arm of this project fits a separate model for Openness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness and Neuroticism. Pooled author embeddings are standardized using statistics derived from the training split. The model then predicts normalized continuous trait scores. Regularization settings are selected through the training procedure, while validation and test records remain outside the fit process.
Lasso and ElasticNet provide a useful baseline because they are simpler than the sequence model and their coefficients can be inspected. They do not automatically explain a personality trait in ordinary language; a coefficient corresponds to an embedding dimension, not a direct psychological cause. Their interpretability is therefore relative to more complex models, not a proof of causal explanation.
Pseudocode 2.4: Sparse Regression for OCEAN Prediction


Figure 2.6: Lasso and ElasticNet Regression Architecture
2.2.5 LSTM Sequence Model
The LSTM is used as a comparison model. An LSTM is designed to process a sequence while retaining information from earlier positions. The project uses a stacked bidirectional LSTM so that the embedding sequence can be processed in both directions. The model produces five continuous OCEAN outputs and is trained using a SmoothL1 loss. It is not a separate core stage of the original four-stage pipeline; it is an additional model condition used to compare pooled regression with sequence learning.
At evaluation time, continuous outputs can be converted into Low or High labels using trait-specific cut-offs. The binary labels are used for classification metrics and threshold analysis. The continuous outputs are also retained for regression metrics. This allows the study to report both the closeness of score predictions and the usefulness of a Low/High decision rule.
Pseudocode 2.5: LSTM Sequence Based OCEAN Prediction

The Q-learning algorithm should be understood as a selection method rather than a personality classifier. It does not output an OCEAN score by itself. Its role is to decide whether a comment is worth sending to the BERT encoder. The selector can be useful when an author has many comments, since some comments may be too short, repeated or unrelated to the author's ordinary language. The final usefulness of the selector is therefore determined by two questions: whether it reduces the amount of text processed, and whether the prediction models maintain or improve their held-out performance after that reduction.
During training, Q-learning uses an epsilon-greedy rule. With a small probability, the agent explores an action at random. Otherwise, it chooses the action with the highest known Q-value. Exploration is needed because a policy that always repeats its earliest decision may never discover that a different selection is useful. After training, the evaluation path uses the learned policy without exploratory updates. This makes selection repeatable for validation and test authors.
The BERT embeddings form the connection between text processing and the downstream algorithms. A numerical embedding does not have a direct human-readable meaning for every individual dimension. Its value is that comments with related contextual meaning can be represented with related patterns of numbers. Mean pooling is appropriate for the regression branch because it creates a single fixed-size representation per author. The sequence branch retains multiple vectors so that the LSTM can use variation across comments.
Embedding caching is used to avoid producing the same vector repeatedly for the same cleaned comment and maximum token length. Caching does not change the content of the embedding or the fitted model. It is an implementation feature that reduces repeated work while the experimental conditions are compared. The report should therefore distinguish the cost saved by cache reuse from the cost saved by Q-learning selection, because they are different forms of efficiency.
The GAN contains safeguards because synthetic examples can be harmful when they depart greatly from the data on which they were trained. The implementation records generator and discriminator loss histories, checks for invalid numerical values, and compares summary statistics of real and synthetic observations. It can clip generated embeddings and generated OCEAN values to plausible observed ranges. These checks do not prove that the samples are psychologically valid, but they reduce the chance that obviously invalid values are added to the training set.
GAN augmentation is limited to the training stage. The generated observations are never used as true labels for validation or test authors. The original observations remain in the training set and synthetic examples are assigned a lower weight. This prevents generated data from overwhelming the human-authored observations and keeps the test evaluation based only on held-out real data. The augmentation result must be reported as an empirical comparison, not as evidence that the model has collected more participants.
The Lasso and ElasticNet models use regularization because BERT embeddings have many dimensions compared with the number of authors in a modest experiment. Without regularization, a linear model may fit random differences in the training data. Lasso uses an L1 penalty and can set some coefficients to zero. ElasticNet includes an L2 component that can be useful when several embedding dimensions contain related information. The project can select the regularization settings through training folds while retaining the external validation and test data for later decisions.
The LSTM has a different role from Lasso or ElasticNet. Rather than averaging all selected embeddings at the start, it receives a sequence of comment vectors. The bidirectional layers process the sequence from both directions, and valid sequence positions are pooled before the final regression head produces OCEAN outputs. Padding allows authors with different numbers of comments to be processed in batches, while true sequence lengths prevent padding from being treated as real text.
The LSTM is trained to predict continuous normalized OCEAN scores. It uses SmoothL1 loss, which is less sensitive to large errors than ordinary squared loss. Its continuous predictions can later be compared using MAE, RMSE, R-squared and Pearson correlation. Low/High metrics are produced after applying the validation-selected decision threshold; they are not a separate three-class personality model. This distinction is important when discussing the LSTM results.
The five algorithms are therefore complementary. Q-learning reduces the candidate text set. BERT converts selected text into contextual features. The GAN supplements limited training regions with weighted synthetic feature-target pairs. Lasso or ElasticNet provides a sparse pooled-feature prediction path. The LSTM provides a sequence-based prediction path. The experiment tests these components through matched conditions rather than claiming that every component must improve every dataset.
2.3 Performance Metrics and Evaluation Measures
The project evaluates models with continuous-score metrics, Low/High classification metrics, threshold measures and component-comparison measures. Metrics are calculated per personality trait and may also be averaged across the five traits. The choice of metric depends on the question being asked. No single metric is sufficient for a sensitive personality prediction task.
Mean Absolute Error MAE is the average absolute difference between predicted and true trait scores. A lower MAE means predictions are, on average, closer to the observed labels. Mean Squared Error MSE squares the errors before averaging, so larger errors receive greater weight. Root Mean Squared Error RMSE is the square root of MSE and is easier to interpret because it uses the same scale as the target score.
The coefficient of determination R-squared indicates how much variation in the observed scores is explained by the model. A higher value is generally better, although negative values are possible when a model performs worse than a simple baseline. Pearson correlation measures whether predicted and observed scores change in the same direction. Correlation does not show that predictions are close in absolute value, so it is reported alongside error measures.
For Low/High classification, accuracy is the proportion of correct predictions. Precision is the proportion of predicted High cases that are actually High. Recall is the proportion of actual High cases identified by the model. F1-score combines precision and recall through their harmonic mean. Specificity is the proportion of actual Low cases correctly identified. These measures are important because accuracy alone can appear acceptable when one class is more common than the other.
ROC-AUC measures how well continuous prediction scores rank High cases above Low cases over a range of thresholds. PR-AUC, reported as average precision, focuses on the relationship between precision and recall. Both measures are especially useful when class balance is uneven, but neither replaces the chosen decision threshold for the final Low/High result.
Trait-label cut-offs are derived from the training split. These determine what counts as Low or High for each trait. Model decision thresholds are selected on the validation predictions. The project chooses the threshold that maximizes the harmonic mean of F1-score and specificity. The selected threshold is then fixed and applied to the held-out test set. This prevents the test data from being used to choose a more favourable decision rule.
The project also evaluates Q-learning efficiency. It records the number of comments selected, the estimated number of BERT calls avoided compared with the baseline, and the change in accuracy or F1-score in matched experimental conditions. GAN effectiveness is assessed through matched differences in MAE, accuracy and F1-score between conditions with and without augmentation. Data-quality reports record retained authors, comment volumes, class balance and the train-validation-test allocation.
MAE is useful because it gives each error equal importance. For example, an absolute error of 0.10 contributes the same amount whether the model predicts above or below the observed score. RMSE gives larger mistakes more influence because the errors are squared before they are averaged. It is useful for identifying whether a condition occasionally produces predictions that are far from the observed score. Both metrics should be read on the normalized OCEAN scale used by the experiment.
R-squared and Pearson correlation answer different questions. R-squared compares the fitted prediction error with variation around a simple reference prediction. A negative R-squared means that the model did not improve on that reference for the evaluated data. Pearson correlation describes the strength and direction of the linear association between predicted and observed values. A condition can have a positive correlation and still have a high MAE, so neither measure should be used alone.
Precision, recall and specificity prevent a misleading interpretation of accuracy. A model that predicts every author as High may obtain a reasonable accuracy where High is common, yet have no ability to identify Low cases. Such a model will have poor specificity. A model that predicts very few High cases may have high precision but poor recall. F1-score combines precision and recall, while the threshold-selection rule also includes specificity so that Low cases are not ignored.
The confusion matrix records true positives, false positives, true negatives and false negatives for each trait. It is particularly helpful when a summary measure appears unexpectedly high or low. ROC-AUC and PR-AUC use the continuous output scores rather than one chosen threshold. They indicate ranking behaviour over many possible thresholds, whereas final reported Low/High accuracy is calculated only after the validation-selected threshold is fixed.
Class-balance reports count Low and High labels for every trait and split. The project also records Low, Medium and High bands for imbalance analysis and targeted GAN selection. The Medium band is not a final classification label. It provides a way to see where examples are scarce and to target training augmentation without changing the final Low/High evaluation task.
The final experiment report includes audit checks. These check that saved classification metrics and threshold records agree with the evaluation procedure. Reproducibility information records the seed, configuration, dataset allocation and repository identity. These are not measures of model accuracy, but they are necessary for interpreting whether a reported result can be checked and repeated.
2.3.1 Use of Metrics in the Current Experiment
The continuous-score metrics are reported for the regression path and can also be calculated for the LSTM continuous outputs. MAE is the principal error measure because it is direct and does not exaggerate a small number of large mistakes. RMSE is reported with it because it shows whether some predictions have unusually large error. R-squared and Pearson correlation provide additional information about explained variation and directional agreement. A condition should not be described as strong simply because it has one favourable metric while its other metrics remain weak.
The Low/High classification measures are evaluated separately for each OCEAN trait. The true Low or High label is derived from a trait-specific cut-off learned from the training split. The model output is compared with a decision threshold selected on validation data. The final test calculation uses that same validation-selected threshold. This procedure makes the test set a final check rather than a source for choosing the best possible threshold.
Accuracy is reported because it is easily understood, but it is not treated as sufficient. Precision, recall, F1-score and specificity reveal different errors. Precision is important when a predicted High label is used as a signal. Recall is important when missing an actual High label matters. Specificity is important when incorrectly assigning High to a Low case is a concern. The F1-score balances precision and recall, while the threshold rule also protects specificity.
ROC-AUC and PR-AUC are calculated from continuous scores before they are converted into Low or High predictions. ROC-AUC shows the trade-off between true-positive and false-positive rates across possible thresholds. PR-AUC summarises precision and recall across thresholds and can be useful where one class is more frequent. These values describe ranking behaviour and should be reported with the chosen-threshold metrics rather than replacing them.
The factorial design adds effect measures. To assess the GAN, the project compares a GAN condition with the corresponding no-GAN condition using the same model type and selection strategy. To assess Q-learning, it compares the Q-learning condition with the matched baseline-selection condition. To assess model type, it compares Lasso or ElasticNet and LSTM conditions under the same selection and augmentation setting. These matched differences are more meaningful than comparing conditions that differ in several ways at once.
Data-quality measures remain part of the evidence. The project records the number of authors in each split, the number of available and selected comments, the distribution of trait bands and the count of generated synthetic examples. A model result must be read alongside these records because a small or imbalanced split can make a metric unstable. The study therefore presents model performance as evidence from a controlled dataset, with limits, rather than as a final measure of personality.
2.4 Empirical Review
Research on computational personality recognition has used linguistic features, behavioural information and machine learning models to estimate personality from digital data. Farnadi et al. (2016) reviewed computational personality recognition methods and noted that online behaviour can provide useful personality-related signals. Azucar et al. (2018) also reported that digital footprints can predict Big Five traits, while emphasizing that effect sizes and performance vary across the available data sources.
Transformer models have improved text representation by capturing contextual information. Christian et al. (2021) applied pre-trained language models to personality identification from multiple social media sources. Tsani and Suhartono (2023) examined an ensemble approach using BERT and RoBERTa. These studies support the use of contextual representations, but they also show that model performance depends on dataset design, label quality and evaluation procedure.
Active selection methods are relevant where a complete text history is expensive to process. Q-learning provides a mechanism for learning a select-or-skip policy, although its reward design must be matched to the actual task. The present study uses an explicit comparison with a full-history baseline so that selection is assessed by both efficiency and held-out prediction results rather than by the number of selected comments alone.
GANs have been widely used to augment limited datasets, particularly in image and tabular settings. Their use for high-dimensional language embeddings requires caution because synthetic observations can introduce unrealistic or weakly related feature-target pairs. The joint embedding and OCEAN-score GAN in this project addresses the paired-data requirement, but it still needs to be evaluated through held-out metrics.
Sparse regression remains relevant even when deep learning models are available. It provides a comparatively simple reference model and can reduce the influence of high-dimensional features. The inclusion of Lasso or ElasticNet and an LSTM in the same factorial experiment allows the study to compare whether sequence modelling improves results enough to justify its added complexity.
2.5 Research Gaps
Early computational personality studies commonly used word counts, sentiment scores, topic frequencies and posting activity. These features can be useful, but they may miss meaning that depends on the surrounding words. Contextual language models address this limitation by representing a comment in relation to its full wording. This is why the present study uses BERT embeddings rather than relying only on manually counted language features.
Pre-trained language models improve text representation, but they do not remove the need for a sound experiment. If the same author appears in training and evaluation, or if the test set is used to choose a decision threshold, the result may appear stronger than it would for unseen authors. The author-level training, validation and test allocation used in this project is intended to avoid these forms of data leakage.
PANDORA is suitable for this study because it contains online comments linked with Big Five scores. It also has limits. Its authors and online communities do not represent every social media population, language group or cultural setting. The dataset is used here to compare model procedures under controlled conditions. It is not evidence that the final model can make equally reliable predictions in all real-world settings.
Q-learning can be used for selection where an action has a later cost or benefit. In this project, the reward is based on information available from the text: informativeness, novelty and selection cost. It does not use the true trait score of a held-out author as a reward. This gives the selector a defined and reproducible role, while limiting the claim that it can be made to optimize personality prediction directly.
GAN research shows that adversarial training can create useful synthetic examples, but the technique may also be unstable when data are limited. A generated embedding can appear numerically plausible without adding useful diversity to the final model. The project therefore records whether the GAN was used, the number of synthetic records, the selected trait bands and matched changes in held-out metrics. These records are more informative than simply stating that the training set became larger.
LSTM networks are useful when a sequence may contain information that an average representation loses. In comment data, sequence order can still be influenced by the collection process and platform timing. The LSTM is therefore evaluated as a model alternative rather than assumed to improve on pooled embeddings. Its results are compared with sparse regression using the same authors and the same selection and augmentation settings.
Metric choice changes how a model is understood. MAE and RMSE measure continuous-score closeness. Accuracy and F1-score measure discrete decisions. ROC-AUC and PR-AUC measure ranking quality across possible thresholds. A model may rank cases reasonably well but still produce poor Low/High decisions at a chosen threshold. Reporting these measures together gives a clearer account of performance.
The reviewed literature identifies four practical gaps addressed by this study. The first is the need to compare model conditions systematically rather than changing several components at once. The second is the need to measure whether text selection reduces embedding work without weakening held-out performance. The third is the limited evaluation of augmentation for paired language embeddings and personality scores. The fourth is the need for a clear evaluation boundary between training, threshold selection and final testing.
The current project addresses these gaps through an eight-condition experiment. It compares two model families, two selection strategies and two augmentation settings under the same author-level data split. This does not guarantee high prediction accuracy, but it provides a clearer basis for determining what each component contributes.
The study also addresses reporting gaps by storing experiment results, thresholds, data allocations and metric audits. These records help a researcher distinguish a model result from a general claim about personality prediction. They also make it possible to identify limitations such as class imbalance, weak specificity or a difference between validation and test performance.
2.6 Conceptual Framework
The conceptual framework begins with PANDORA comments and OCEAN labels. The comments are cleaned and grouped by author. A baseline selector or trained Q-learning selector chooses the comments that will proceed to contextual embedding extraction. BERT transforms the selected text into numerical vectors. These vectors are pooled for sparse regression or retained as sequences for the LSTM model.
During training only, the GAN may generate additional embedding and OCEAN-score pairs from underrepresented trait bands. The resulting original and synthetic training data are supplied to the corresponding model condition. Validation data are used to select trait-specific Low/High decision thresholds. The held-out test data are then used for final performance reporting. The framework produces predicted continuous scores, classification results, threshold evidence, component-effect comparisons and stored research records.
2.6.1 Stage 1 Comment Selection
The selection stage determines which comments are sent to BERT. The baseline condition uses the available history. The Q-learning condition uses a policy trained from text informativeness, novelty and selection cost. The output is a selected set of comments for each author.
2.6.2 Stage 2 Contextual Feature Extraction
The feature-extraction stage applies BERT to each selected comment and produces 768-dimensional contextual embeddings. These embeddings form the common representation used by both the regression and sequence-model paths.
2.6.3 Stage 3 Training Data Augmentation
The augmentation stage is optional and uses training data only. The GAN generates paired embedding and OCEAN-score observations to supplement underrepresented training regions. It does not generate records for validation or test authors.
2.6.4 Stage 4 Personality Prediction and Evaluation
The final stage fits Lasso or ElasticNet regression models and an LSTM comparison model. It reports continuous-score metrics and, where Low/High decisions are required, classification metrics using validation-selected thresholds. Results are stored for review and comparison.

Figure 2.7: Conceptual Pipeline Architecture
Trait | Illustrative comment signals | Use in this project
Openness | Creative, abstract or exploratory language | Contextual BERT features
Conscientiousness | Organized, goal-directed or planned language | Contextual BERT features
Extraversion | Social, energetic or interaction-oriented language | Contextual BERT features
Agreeableness | Supportive, cooperative or grateful language | Contextual BERT features
Neuroticism | Worry, stress or emotionally negative language | Contextual BERT features
INPUT: comments, selection budget, Q-table
FOR each training episode:
    selected = empty set
    FOR each comment in comments:
        state = describe(comment, selected, budget)
        action = epsilon-greedy choice(select, skip)
        IF action is select:
            reward = informativeness + novelty - selection_cost
            add comment to selected
        ELSE: reward = 0
        next_state = describe(next comment, selected, budget)
        update Q(state, action) using temporal-difference rule
RETURN trained Q-table and selected comments
INPUT: cleaned selected comments
FOR each comment:
    tokens = tokenize comment with BERT tokenizer
    tokens = truncate or pad to maximum length
    hidden_states = BERT(tokens, attention_mask)
    embedding = CLS representation from final hidden state
    save or cache the 768-dimensional embedding
IF regression condition: average comment embeddings per author
IF LSTM condition: retain ordered embedding sequence per author
RETURN author-level pooled features or embedding sequences
INPUT: training embeddings X_train and OCEAN labels y_train
identify rows in underrepresented trait bands
fit generator and discriminator on selected training pairs only
FOR each training epoch:
    real_pair = concatenate(real embedding, real OCEAN scores)
    fake_pair = generator(random latent noise)
    train discriminator to separate real and fake pairs
    train generator to make fake pairs appear real
generate synthetic embedding and OCEAN-score pairs
clip generated values to valid observed ranges
append synthetic pairs to training data with reduced weight
RETURN augmented training data and GAN diagnostics
INPUT: pooled author embeddings and continuous OCEAN labels
split authors into training, validation and test groups
fit feature mean and standard deviation on training embeddings
standardize training, validation and test features with training statistics
FOR each trait in O, C, E, A, N:
    fit Lasso or ElasticNet on training features and trait labels
    predict continuous trait score for validation and test authors
    compute regression metrics and store coefficients
RETURN five fitted models, predictions and metrics
INPUT: ordered BERT embedding sequence for each author
pad sequences and retain each true sequence length
initialize stacked bidirectional LSTM and regression head
FOR each training epoch:
    pass padded embedding sequences through the LSTM
    mean-pool valid LSTM outputs for each author
    predict five continuous OCEAN scores
    calculate SmoothL1 loss against training labels
    update model parameters with Adam optimizer
predict continuous OCEAN scores for validation and test authors
apply validation-selected thresholds for Low High metrics
RETURN trained LSTM, continuous predictions and classification results